# AlphaFictionAssignmentSoftwareArt

Credits: https://freedrama.net/aliens.html
	
          https://www.scriptslug.com/

I initially intended on making an interactive system that would allow a user to combine the artistic approach of various authors to create a new body of work that included influences from both artists. The inspiration for this project came from a frustration I held towards some of my favorite poets who I knew were friends but never collaborated on work. For one past project, I fed into gpt-2 work from a favorite retired poet. The replicated work sounded so much like her that I was certain the remix idea would work to create equally coherent pieces. I failed, however to account for the disruption to composition and therefore comprehension that would be brought in by different authors’ work into someone’s work. As a result, the trial runs I had produced nonsensical work that I was not pleased with.

I discarded the idea in part, specifically the part that asked the user to select the authors because I could not deliver on the full experienced promised: instant generation of comprehensive text that mimicked both authors at once. Instead, I chose to create these molded pieces, edit them and present them as complete pieces that serve the purpose of humor and general entertainment.

The most difficult part of this process was the editing of the produced text. Often, generated text would fail to have a thematic focus and so it was up t me to establish a plot/story and find pieces in the generated text that fit the story while allowing the storyline to be influenced by available text simultaneously. The role of the generated text in the structuring of the plot became influencing what kind of story I decide to produce as I was constantly influenced by the output to mold and reshape my storyline. In the end, it felt as though I had co-authored these pieces with the software which gave me the inspiration for how I was to present my work: as a stream of consciousness onto a blank page.

I decided to present my work on a webpage because I needed a blank canvas to be able to fulfill my vision. To stay true to the stream of consciousness of an author narrative, I selected font that is stereotypically known to be a font used to write scripts and I leaned how to incorporate the typewriter feature into my work to create an immersive feeling for the user who might feel like an outsider in the work. 
The decision for which works to mix together came from the intention of mixing genres and combining pieces that were different in production century and/or genre. As a result, I combined the play “Hamilton” with the 2019 film “Girls Trip”, merging play and film, as well as “Romeo and Juliet” with a lesser known play titled “Touched by an Alien” combining tragedy and comedy from very different centuries. I had also intended on combining childhood content with more adult content with mixing Tinkerbell and Fifty Shades of Gray but there appeared to be another internal software error and was, thus unable to.
I am very content with the results, particularly the presentation. It gives the feeling of watching a series of events develop and unfold in real-time which is challenges the perception of writing as an entertainment medium being restricted to not having a real-time feel.
